# selfieinsight

The present project proposes a system similar to that used by EmotionNet can be used to categorize the diversity of beauty cannons that have been present throughout human history. Italian philosopher Umberto Eco (2004) defined in his book “On Beauty” at least three clear categories of feminine beauty: Venus, goddess of seduction; Mary, mother of God, conceived without sin; and the Queen, rightful heir to royal throne chosen by God. Intuitively, we can associate each of these categories to different predominant emotions. While goddess Venus is known for her immense seductive confidence, Mary’s main characteristics are compassion and kindness. On the other side, the archetype of the Queen is commonly associated with opulence, the display of power, and often also pride. Confidence, kindness and arrogance are all attitudes with clear facial signifiers. Self-confident individuals rarely express fearful facial gestures, which were associated with AU 4 by Martinez (2016), as shown in Figure 2. Kind individuals often display affiliative smiles involving lip pressing (Rychlowska, 2017), which is AU 24 as defined by Martinez (2014). Finally, pride has been associated with the action of slightly tilting the head back, which corresponds to AU 53 (head up) according to Tracy (2007). We can then conclude that the emotional features described by AUs could be used by a computational model to take large selfie datasets and classify them according to the intensity with which each AU is presented, ranging from absence of AU to maximal intensity.
